# Multiverse OS: Portal (VM) Base Images
#========================================
  The idea behind base images is that each VM can use the same base image so that it can be read-only (immutable), and let the entire VM be ephemeral by segregating all unique aspects of the portal be moved to the `\*.portal` file.

  And the aspects of the operating system that need to be writeable: [`/var/`, `/home/`, `/tmp`] can generated by a combination of the portal file and the scramble suite id file. Simplifying the build process, and making it easier to have ephermal VMs.

  Ideally we should only need a single `\*.base` file for each VM. As in, `alpine3-7.base` and `debian9.base`. **However since currently they are not r/o, we are making a single file per VM, but eventually only one base per operating system should be in this folder.** [This was corrected, the debian9.base is now a fresh install with no changes]

Or at the very least, one base per os and Multiverse OS VM class/type (Controller, Service, (App)lication). 

### Notes

The `debian9.base` is sourced from the `debian9.user.controller.base`, we need to rebuild a fresh install for an official `debian9.base`.

### Development

> ### Multiple bases are currently a development dependency
> Ideally as `portal-gun` develops we will be able to share a single debian9 base, one for each (OS), or at the very least a base for each (OS+Multiverse VM Class). But for now since we can not eaisly provision the difference on each boot, we need to use unique bases that have their configuration _hard-provivisioned_ (think of hard-coding). The sooner we get `portal-gun` to this stage we can drop a lot of third-party dependencies and are essentially 90% ready for Alpha release.



